---
layout: post
title: "This Site is Now Static HTML!"
date: 2016-09-18 13:58:11 -0500
categories: jekyll web github
redirect_from: /150597631356/goodbye-tumblr
---

This site is now generated using Jekyll, and hosted as static HTML on Github Pages. Yay!

## A history of how we got here

Years ago, my site was a wholly custom PHP piece of garbage. From it I learned a ton, but I was relieved when I finally took the time, maybe 4 years ago, to rewrite it.

Then, for about a year, it was a Rails application, with a _very_ minimal UI for editing posts. I was too lazy to really improve it, and the only improvements needed were the CRUD UI.

So I rewrote it again, but kept the views and routing, using a gem I wrote called [mumblr](/projects/mumblr). Mumblr was simple: fetch content from Tumblr, cache it locally, and the use it as content on your site.

For example, instead of building any kind of CRUD for the landing page, I just needed to make the landing page show content for any post tagged with, eg, `mumblr_landing_page`. Then, I need only post on Tumblr a single, private entry, with the content I wanted.

That worked pretty well, but made it really difficult to see what I was getting without trying it out in production. Worse, Tumblr would periodically change the fields that came back rom

## Dependencies

There was one problem with my Mumblr set up that was far worse than any others: I was wholly dependent on Tumblr, and hosting a Rails site is much more complex than a static HTML site, which my site mostly was.

## So?

* If Tumblr went down, I had everything cached locally in Mongo. But I couldn't update anything, and Mongo takes up _tons of storage_, and grows incredibly fast.
* If Tumblr were to get acquired by someone else, then I'd have to migrate everything somewhere else.
* Hosting a Rails site requires lots of moving parts. No big deal, but minor things like updating SSL get much more complex with more moving parts.
* Static HTML is _blazing_ fast, and can be heavily cached.

On top of all of this, I've been going through a dependency-diet for the last few years, where _any_ dependency that isn't _very_ necessary is a _very_ bad thing.

Why did I need a gem to install bootstrap? Why do I use a gem to include font-awesome? Why do I even use bootstrap?

## Jekyll + Github Pages

Enter Jekyll. (Well, actually, enter a revolutionary idea I had a few months back to create an application that would generate static HTML from easily-maintained content. Oh wait, that already exists? Jekyll? Interesting.)

Now, all my posts are stored in a github repo in a universal markdown, allowing me to either grab the generated site or use the markdown if I ever get tired of Jekyll.

I only need to install [three gems](https://github.com/thelowlypeon/thelowlypeon.github.io/blob/594eabdcd961e2677155278c92e76c2932111185/Gemfile#L5-L7) locally to test changes before deploying them.

And if I need to make a change while I'm out and about, all I need to do is make the change via Github's web UI, or ssh into any machine that has git and my ssh keys installed.

## Caveats

It wasn't all sunshine and roses. Github pages doesn't support SSL with a custom domain. And I want both a custom domain and to encourage people to stop trusting sites served over only http. So I had to setup [CloudFlare](https://www.cloudflare.com), and thus change a bunch of my DNS records. (Worth it.)

I also had to setup redirects for all my old posts, because Tumblr throws an ID in the route, which I've never liked. Fortunately, github pages supports `jekyll-redirect-from`, a simple redirect plugin.

Finally, I had a few things on my existing site that weren't static. For example, you could search blog posts by tag. I could easily write something to generate a page for each tag, but I kind of prefer my existing solution of listing the (few) posts [by date in the archive](/archive).

## Conclusion

Anyway! Hope you enjoy the faster site, and the small changes that came with it!
